maybe part of the problem is that we
have such a low opinion of ourselves
that we think that the people who know
us well
know that we're scumbags know that we
have bad motivations
know that we won't keep our promises
know that we've let them down in the
past like if i tell my brother
if i tell my best friend there's no one
for real he's gonna say yeah i know
you're [ __ ] i've heard you say this
before i know
and if i go and talk to this
quote-unquote professional
they don't know any of my tricks they
don't know any of my track record they
don't know anything about
character i can tell them anything and
they believe it
um my father was something like a
compulsive liar
um some kind of mythomaniac he lied
about everything
all the time his therapist
didn't have someone like me sitting in
the room
taking notes to then say yeah every
single thing this guy just told you
was was a lie like this stuff is
factually wrong like
the therapist is receiving this stuff as
as fact uncritically right
i'll pause for just a second because
sure a lot of the examples you're giving
involve people that are being dishonest
about wanting therapy so
forget all that we're talking about
somebody who is genuinely interested in
being honest with a therapist and
getting actual help from this person
oh oh no i think i think they all are i
think my father he wanted help he wanted
to change
but he can't stop himself from lying
right so just sorry real really simple
example this is really simple down to
earth example it's not embarrassing
anyone
you know if if you asked my father so he
had nine kids
right if i got there nine right so it's
a giant number okay
he had nine kids if if you said to him
you know why do you think it is that so
many your kids had
had drug and alcohol addictions like
either alcoholism or some other drug
problem
he would say to you what are you talking
about none of my none of my kids have
ever had a problem with drugs and
alcohol
and you could then try to sit there for
an hour and get him to admit
that he actually does have definite
knowledge of several of his sons
really having long term like like
anything so but he wants help no he
wants help
he's going to go in and get help from
his from his therapist
but there's no way his therapist is
going to know the truth about
anything in his in his life and i mean
so the kind of honesty you're talking
about so even henia this other youtuber
she's the example
you know it's not that she would lie to
a therapist
intentionally i'm going to presume the
best about her
is she capable of coming into a
therapist
and if she was really capable of that
level of detachment and self-analysis
she probably doesn't
need the therapist if she was capable of
coming in and saying that look she has a
history of drug addiction
and lying about drug addiction and these
are the knock-on effects of drugs and
like
i already know from our youtube channel
all kinds of problems in life
you know of course it's it's hard to be
honest those things and
someone like your brother let's just say
someone who's known you from childhood
and it's still your friend today
they may know your [ __ ] they may
know your track record they may have a
sense of your character
and they may able to be able to confront
you about the ways in which you're being
dishonest
and this so-called uh professional they
they can't do any of that right so i
think that's also
an interesting important part of the
contrast here
i guess i just i so so from your
perspective
even if so because you're again you're
still talking about people that
essentially can't be honest
and i don't think that's everybody like
are you are you so i understand are you
suggesting
to some extent that people can't even
address their own issues
that's i'm suggesting that's what they
need help with that's like the stuff i
the stuff you can be honest about isn't
what you're gonna help so
you know real so i'm i'm divorced my
ex-wife
there's no way my ex-wife could have
come into a therapist
and presented the problems in the
relationship this therapist being
someone who doesn't
doesn't know us at all now if if we had
someone like one of my brothers
who had lived in the same city with us
and knew us for all those years
right that would be a very different
scenario and you know you could present
oh well this is what i think the problem
with the relationship is
and this brother could be like well look
you say that now but i remember what you
guys were dealing with
three years ago and then i remember when
this happened
that's a different perspective right but
no
and again that's not even not even
saying that my ex-wife
intentionally wanted to lie but exactly
what it is you you need help with
of course that's what you can't be
honest about and
let's sorry video games are a great
example too all kinds of people are
going to go into the therapist and ask
for help
they don't think video games are a
problem you know like oh yeah my
marriage is falling apart
and this is my situation at work and you
know my
my grandfather died and i was really sad
at the funeral
and the therapist may not even ask how
many hours a day are you playing video
games
you know like and it turns out this
person let's just say they're playing
video games three hours a day
seven days a week which today is
considered a normal level of play it's
not even an addict but by today's
standards
right it's like oh well you know your
relationship with your wife would be
different
if you if you weren't playing video
games you know
not again not saying you would
intentionally lie not saying this guy
comes in with an agenda to be dishonest
but this kind of uh insight analysis and
perspicacity um people who are sad and
distraught and broken and asking for
help
of course they're not capable of course
[Music]
not
you